Adds docs for custom roles in Calico Cloud (#307)
tigera/docs: calico-cloud_versioned_docs/version-3.15/users/creating-and-assigning-custom-roles.mdx

---
description: Create and assign custom roles to give specific, cluster-specific permission to your users.
---

import IconUser from '/img/icons/user-icon.svg';

# Creating and assigning custom roles

As an administrator, you can create custom, cluster-specific roles that restrict users to particular functions on a cluster.

## Overview

> Calico Cloud comes with a set of predefinied global roles that let you give permissions to users based on what they need to do.

Reviewer: {{prodname}} (check across the doc)

Author: done

For example, a user with the Security global role has a broader set of permissions than a user with the Viewer global role.
These permissions apply to all clusters.

But in some cases these global roles can be too broad.

> By creating and assigning custom roles, administrators can be much more discriminating about what permissions they give users.

Reviewer: Doc point of view is uneven. Doc goes back and forth between "you" and "administrators" and "to your users". First sentence introduces "administrator" as the actor, so I would say "you" and "users".

Author: done

> For example, you could create a role that gives a user the ability to modify network policy for a particular tier and namespace and gives view access to all other network policies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, you could create a role that allows the user to modify network policy for a particular tier and namespace, and view access to all other network policies.
```

Author: done, as a hybrid

Permissions are assigned on a cluster-by-cluster basis.

## Required permissions for common Calico Cloud features

Certain permissions are required for a user to access common Calico Cloud features.

> 

Reviewer: The inconsistent wrapping in the table makes it hard to grok some cells. I'm not fond of it myself, but using a dash as a bullet may help with readability. 
- View or Modify Alerts
and
- View Event Logs or View All Logs

| Feature area | Required permissions | Notes |
| --| -- | -- |
| Alerts | **View** or **Modify Alerts**<br/>and<br/>**View Event Logs** or **View All Logs** | |
| Anomaly detection | **View** or **Modify Alerts** and **View Event Logs** or **View All Logs**| |
| Compliance reports | **View Compliance Reports** | |
| Dashboard | **View All Logs**<br/>and<br/>**View Global Network Sets** or **View Network Sets**<br/>and<br/>(optional) **View Compliance Reports** | These permissions are required for the dashboard to fully populate. Limited metrics are enabled just by having access to a cluster.<br/> |

> | Network policies | **View** or **Modify Policies**<br/>or<br/>**View** or **Modify Global Policies**<br/>and<br/>(optional) **View Audit Logs** or **View All Logs** | The **Policies** permissions are scoped to one or more namespaces. The **Global Policies** permissions apply to the whole cluster. These permissions are also scoped by [policy tier](../network-policy/index.mdx). |

Reviewer: policy tier should not go to the index. Better straight to the doc on tiers: /network-policy/policy-tiers/

Also, the paragraph unevenly uses "apply" and "permissions are scoped". Apply is good.

Reviewer: I had to read this twice so suggest:

These permissions are required for the dashboard to fully populate. All users are granted limited dashboard metrics by having access to a cluster.

Author: done, done, and done

| Service graph | **View All Logs**<br/>and<br/>**View** or **Modify Network Sets**<br/>and<br/>(optional) **View** or **Modify Packet Captures** | Can be restricted to a namespace or set to all namespaces to see all flows. |
| Threat feeds | **View** or **Modify Threat Feeds** | |
| Timeline | **View Event Logs** or **View All Logs** | |

## Before you begin

* You must be signed in to Calico Cloud UI as an administrator.

## Create a custom role and attach permissions

1. Click the user icon <IconUser width="20"/> > **Manage Team**.
1. Under the **Roles** tab, click **Add Role**, enter a name and description for the custom role, and then click **Save**.
1. Select the cluster you want to want the role to apply to by clicking **Cluster:** and choosing the cluster.
1. Locate your new role in the list, select **Action** > **Manage permissions** > **Edit**, and the click **Add Permission**.
1. Under **Permission**, choose a permission type from the list.
   Depending on the permission, you may also need to choose a namespace or policy tier.
1. (optional) Click **Add permission** to add more permissions to your role for this cluster.

> 1. Click **Save** to attach these permissions to the role for this cluster.

Reviewer: No need to introduce "attach"...

1. Click **Save** to save these permissions to the role for this cluster. 
1. (optional) If you want to add the permissions to another cluster, repeat steps 3 to 7 for the cluster.

Author: Yes! Thanks!
